README.md, before:

# Employee Tracker     [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

# Table of Contents
- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Installation Instructions](#installation-instructions)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Screenshot](#screenshot)
- [Walkthrough Videos](#walkthrough-video)  
- [How To Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Technology](#technology)
- [Questions](#questions)
- [License](#license)


# Project Description
This small command line interface (CLI) application will prompt the user to navigate a simple menu to organise departments, roles within those
departments, and employees working with those roles (with/without a manager).  By using the items in the main menu the user can view all departments,
view all roles, view all employees, show the employees for a given role, show the employees for a given department, and show the annual salary budget for all
departments.  

The user can also add a new department, role with a department, and add a new employee to a role with a manager.

The user can update the role of an employee after creation if desired.

# Installation Instructions

1.  Install [node.js](http://nodejs.org)
2.  Using the installed Node Package Manager `npm`, execute `npm install` to install the required libraries.


# Usage

To execute the application, use a command line interface (CLI) such as terminal (or in windows command) and execute `npm run start` or alternatively `node index.js`


# Screenshot

![screenshot](./dist/img/screenshot.png)

# Walkthrough Video

1.  Showing packages use and database structure [walkthrough part 1](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KSw7_XL0XIgx21I5UGa7pWjbQaa7BoTj/view)
2.  Invocation of application and basic views  [walkthrough part 2](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Bj7o-IOvPLHOHZrM8AZxB5IQh69F3UNh/view)
3.  (Some) Bonus criteria [walkthrough part 3](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fRRhJDs6v3iDcSW1beo5-NFz4PrKXHW9/view)

## How to contribute

Please access the [Questions](#questions) section to send me an email, or access the repository link if you wish to help contribute to this project.

# Technology

1. [Node.js](http://nodejs.org)
2. NPM
3. [Inquirer](https://npmjs.com/package/inquirer)
4. [Moment](https://npmjs.com/package/moment)
5. [Console.Table](https://www.npmjs.com/package/console.table)
6. [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/)
7. [MySQL2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)
8. [DotENV](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv)
9. [Git-Crypt](https://github.com/AGWA/git-crypt)


# Questions

>  **Direct your questions about this project to:**
>
>  *GitHub:* [Github Project Link](https://github.com/jsharples777/week-13-homework)
>
>  *Email:* [jamie.sharples@gmail.com](mailto:jamie.sharples@gmail.com)

# License

### [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
A short and simple permissive license with conditions only requiring preservation of copyright and license notices. Licensed works, modifications, and larger works may be distributed under different terms and without source code.

Commit message:

Added schema and seed SQL files

README.md, after:

# Employee Tracker     [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

# Table of Contents
- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Installation Instructions](#installation-instructions)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Screenshot](#screenshot)
- [Walkthrough Videos](#walkthrough-video)  
- [How To Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Technology](#technology)
- [Questions](#questions)
- [License](#license)


# Project Description
This small command line interface (CLI) application will prompt the user to navigate a simple menu to organise departments, roles within those
departments, and employees working with those roles (with/without a manager).  By using the items in the main menu the user can view all departments,
view all roles, view all employees, show the employees for a given role, show the employees for a given department, and show the annual salary budget for all
departments.  

The user can also add a new department, role with a department, and add a new employee to a role with a manager.

The user can update the role of an employee after creation if desired.

# Installation Instructions

1.  Install [node.js](http://nodejs.org)
2.  Connect to the MySQL database and run `source schema.sql;` to create the tables
3.  Connect to the MySQL database and run `source seed.sql;` to load the test data  
4.  Using the installed Node Package Manager `npm`, execute `npm install` to install the required libraries.


# Usage

To execute the application, use a command line interface (CLI) such as terminal (or in windows command) and execute `npm run start` or alternatively `node index.js`


# Screenshot

![screenshot](./dist/img/screenshot.png)

# Walkthrough Video

1.  Showing packages use and database structure [walkthrough part 1](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KSw7_XL0XIgx21I5UGa7pWjbQaa7BoTj/view)
2.  Invocation of application and basic views  [walkthrough part 2](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Bj7o-IOvPLHOHZrM8AZxB5IQh69F3UNh/view)
3.  (Some) Bonus criteria [walkthrough part 3](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fRRhJDs6v3iDcSW1beo5-NFz4PrKXHW9/view)

## How to contribute

Please access the [Questions](#questions) section to send me an email, or access the repository link if you wish to help contribute to this project.

# Technology

1. [Node.js](http://nodejs.org)
2. NPM
3. [Inquirer](https://npmjs.com/package/inquirer)
4. [Moment](https://npmjs.com/package/moment)
5. [Console.Table](https://www.npmjs.com/package/console.table)
6. [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/)
7. [MySQL2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)
8. [DotENV](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv)
9. [Git-Crypt](https://github.com/AGWA/git-crypt)


# Questions

>  **Direct your questions about this project to:**
>
>  *GitHub:* [Github Project Link](https://github.com/jsharples777/week-13-homework)
>
>  *Email:* [jamie.sharples@gmail.com](mailto:jamie.sharples@gmail.com)

# License

### [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
A short and simple permissive license with conditions only requiring preservation of copyright and license notices. Licensed works, modifications, and larger works may be distributed under different terms and without source code.
